packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/README.md, before:

# gatsby-plugin-sharp

Exposes several image processing functions built on the
[Sharp image processing library](https://github.com/lovell/sharp). This is a
low-level helper plugin generally used by other Gatsby plugins. You generally
shouldn't be using this directly but might find it helpful if doing very custom
image processing.

It aims to provide excellent out-of-the box settings for processing common web
image formats.

For JPEGs it generates progressive images with a default quality level of 50.

For PNGs it uses [pngquant](https://github.com/pornel/pngquant) to compress
images. By default it uses a quality setting of [50-75].

## Install

`npm install --save gatsby-plugin-sharp`

## How to use

```javascript
// In your gatsby-config.js
plugins: [`gatsby-plugin-sharp`]
```

## Methods

### resize

#### Parameters

- `width` (int, default: 400)
- `height` (int)
- `quality` (int, default: 50)
- `jpegProgressive` (bool, default: true)
- `pngCompressionLevel` (int, default: 9)
- `base64`(bool, default: false)

#### Returns

- `src` (string)
- `width` (int)
- `height` (int)
- `aspectRatio` (float)

### fixed

Automatically create sizes for different resolutions — we do 1x, 1.5x, 2x, and
3x.

#### Parameters

- `width` (int, default: 400)
- `height` (int)
- `quality` (int, default: 50)

#### Returns

- `base64` (string)
- `aspectRatio` (float)
- `width` (float)
- `height` (float)
- `src` (string)
- `srcSet` (string)

### fluid

Create fluid sizes (in width) for the image. If the max width of the container for the
rendered markdown file is 800px, the sizes would then be: 200, 400, 800, 1200,
1600, 2400 – enough to provide close to the optimal image size for every device
size / screen resolution.

If you want more control over which sizes are output you can use the `srcSetBreakpoints`
parameter. For example, if you want images that are 200, 340, 520, and 890 wide you
can add `srcSetBreakpoints: [ 200, 340, 520, 890 ]` as a parameter. You will also get
`maxWidth` as a breakpoint (which is 800 by default), so you will actually get
`[ 200, 340, 520, 800, 890 ]` as breakpoints.

On top of that, `fluid` returns everything else (namely aspectRatio and
a base64 image to use as a placeholder) you need to implement the "blur up"
technique popularized by Medium and Facebook (and also available as a Gatsby
plugin for Markdown content as gatsby-remark-images).

#### Parameters

- `maxWidth` (int, default: 800)
- `maxHeight` (int)
- `quality` (int, default: 50)
- `sizeByPixelDensity` (bool, default: false)
- `srcSetBreakpoints` (array of int, default: [])

#### Returns

- `base64` (string)
- `aspectRatio` (float)
- `src` (string)
- `srcSet` (string)
- `srcSetType` (string)
- `sizes` (string)
- `originalImg` (string)

### Shared Options

In addition to their individual parameters, all methods above share the
following:

- `grayscale` (bool, default: false)
- `duotone` (bool|obj, default: false)
- `toFormat` (string, default: '')
- `cropFocus` (string, default: '[sharp.strategy.attention][6]')

#### toFormat

Convert the source image to one of the following available options: `NO_CHANGE`,
`JPG`, `PNG`, `WEBP`.

#### cropFocus

Change the cropping focus. Available options: `CENTER`, `NORTH`, `NORTHEAST`,
`EAST`, `SOUTHEAST`, `SOUTH`, `SOUTHWEST`, `WEST`, `NORTHWEST`, `ENTROPY`,
`ATTENTION`. See Sharp's [crop][6].

#### rotate

Rotate the image (after cropping). See Sharp's [rotate][7].

#### grayscale

Uses Sharp's [greyscale][8] to convert the source image to 8-bit greyscale, 256
shades of grey, e.g.

```javascript
allImageSharp {
  edges {
    node {
      ... on ImageSharp {
        resize(width: 150, height: 150, grayscale: true) {
          src
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### duotone

Applys a "duotone" effect (see [I][1], [II][2], [III][3]) to the source image if
given two hex colors `shadow` and `highlight` defining start and end color of
the duotone gradient, e.g.

```javascript
fixed(
  width: 800,
  duotone: {
    highlight: "#f00e2e",
    shadow: "#192550"
  }
) {
  src
  srcSet
  base64
}
```

the source image colors will be converted to match a gradient color chosen based
on each pixel's [relative luminance][4].\
Logic is borrowed from [react-duotone][5].

You can pass a third optional parameter, `opacity`:

```javascript
fluid(
  width: 800,
  duotone: {
    highlight: "#f00e2e",
    shadow: "#192550",
    opacity: 50
  }
) {
  src
  srcSet
  base64
}
```

If set, a semi-transparent version of duotone'd image will be composited over
the original image, allowing the original image and its colors to partially
"shine through". _Heads up_: If the original image contains an alpha channel it
will be [flattened][15] before creating the composite.

This works by adding an alpha channel to the duotone'd image - then we let Sharp
do its magic via
[`overlayWith`](http://sharp.dimens.io/en/stable/api-composite/#overlaywith);
quoting the Sharp documentation:

> If the overlay image contains an alpha channel then composition with
> <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alpha_compositing">premultiplication</a>
> will occur.

#### tracedSVG

Generates a traced SVG of the image (see [the original GitHub issue][9]) and
returns the SVG as "[optimized URL-encoded][10]" `data:` URI. It it used in
[gatsby-image](/packages/gatsby-image/) to provide an
alternative to the default inline base64 placeholder image.

Uses [node-potrace][11] and [SVGO][12] under the hood. Default settings for
node-potrace:

```javascript
  {
    color: `lightgray`,
    optTolerance: 0.4,
    turdSize: 100,
    turnPolicy: TURNPOLICY_MAJORITY,
  }
```

All [node-potrace `Potrace` parameters][13] are exposed and can be set via the
`traceSVG` argument:

```javascript
fixed(
  traceSVG: {
    color: "#f00e2e"
    turnPolicy: TURNPOLICY_MINORITY
    blackOnWhite: false
  }
) {
  src
  srcSet
  tracedSVG
}
```

### Using MozJPEG

You can opt-in to use [MozJPEG][16] for jpeg-encoding. MozJPEG provides even
better image compression than the default encoder used in `gatsby-plugin-sharp`.
However, when using MozJPEG the build time of your Gatsby project will increase
significantly.
To enable MozJPEG set the [environment variable](/docs/environment-variables/#environment-variables):

```shell
GATSBY_JPEG_ENCODER=MOZJPEG
```

[1]: https://alistapart.com/article/finessing-fecolormatrix
[2]: http://blog.72lions.com/blog/2015/7/7/duotone-in-js
[3]: https://ines.io/blog/dynamic-duotone-svg-jade
[4]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Relative_luminance
[5]: https://github.com/nagelflorian/react-duotone
[6]: http://sharp.dimens.io/en/stable/api-resize/#crop
[7]: http://sharp.dimens.io/en/stable/api-operation/#rotate
[8]: http://sharp.dimens.io/en/stable/api-colour/#greyscale
[9]: https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/2435
[10]: https://codepen.io/tigt/post/optimizing-svgs-in-data-uris
[11]: https://github.com/tooolbox/node-potrace
[12]: https://github.com/svg/svgo
[13]: https://github.com/tooolbox/node-potrace#parameters
[14]: https://github.com/oliver-moran/jimp
[15]: http://sharp.dimens.io/en/stable/api-operation/#flatten
[16]: https://github.com/mozilla/mozjpeg

Commit message:

add option to exclude original image
- original image will not be used in sizes array or in srcSetBreakpoints

packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp/README.md, after:

# gatsby-plugin-sharp

Exposes several image processing functions built on the
[Sharp image processing library](https://github.com/lovell/sharp). This is a
low-level helper plugin generally used by other Gatsby plugins. You generally
shouldn't be using this directly but might find it helpful if doing very custom
image processing.

It aims to provide excellent out-of-the box settings for processing common web
image formats.

For JPEGs it generates progressive images with a default quality level of 50.

For PNGs it uses [pngquant](https://github.com/pornel/pngquant) to compress
images. By default it uses a quality setting of [50-75].

## Install

`npm install --save gatsby-plugin-sharp`

## How to use

```javascript
// In your gatsby-config.js
plugins: [`gatsby-plugin-sharp`]
```

## Methods

### resize

#### Parameters

- `width` (int, default: 400)
- `height` (int)
- `quality` (int, default: 50)
- `jpegProgressive` (bool, default: true)
- `pngCompressionLevel` (int, default: 9)
- `base64`(bool, default: false)

#### Returns

- `src` (string)
- `width` (int)
- `height` (int)
- `aspectRatio` (float)

### fixed

Automatically create sizes for different resolutions — we do 1x, 1.5x, 2x, and
3x.

#### Parameters

- `width` (int, default: 400)
- `height` (int)
- `quality` (int, default: 50)

#### Returns

- `base64` (string)
- `aspectRatio` (float)
- `width` (float)
- `height` (float)
- `src` (string)
- `srcSet` (string)

### fluid

Create fluid sizes (in width) for the image. If the max width of the container for the
rendered markdown file is 800px, the sizes would then be: 200, 400, 800, 1200,
1600, 2400 – enough to provide close to the optimal image size for every device
size / screen resolution.

If you want more control over which sizes are output you can use the `srcSetBreakpoints`
parameter. For example, if you want images that are 200, 340, 520, and 890 wide you
can add `srcSetBreakpoints: [ 200, 340, 520, 890 ]` as a parameter. You will also get
`maxWidth` as a breakpoint (which is 800 by default), so you will actually get
`[ 200, 340, 520, 800, 890 ]` as breakpoints.

By default you will also get the original image in sizes and also breakpoints. You can override this behaviour by setting `excludeOriginal` to `false`

On top of that, `fluid` returns everything else (namely aspectRatio and
a base64 image to use as a placeholder) you need to implement the "blur up"
technique popularized by Medium and Facebook (and also available as a Gatsby
plugin for Markdown content as gatsby-remark-images).

#### Parameters

- `maxWidth` (int, default: 800)
- `maxHeight` (int)
- `quality` (int, default: 50)
- `sizeByPixelDensity` (bool, default: false)
- `srcSetBreakpoints` (array of int, default: [])
- `excludeOriginal` (bool, default: false)

#### Returns

- `base64` (string)
- `aspectRatio` (float)
- `src` (string)
- `srcSet` (string)
- `srcSetType` (string)
- `sizes` (string)
- `originalImg` (string)

### Shared Options

In addition to their individual parameters, all methods above share the
following:

- `grayscale` (bool, default: false)
- `duotone` (bool|obj, default: false)
- `toFormat` (string, default: '')
- `cropFocus` (string, default: '[sharp.strategy.attention][6]')

#### toFormat

Convert the source image to one of the following available options: `NO_CHANGE`,
`JPG`, `PNG`, `WEBP`.

#### cropFocus

Change the cropping focus. Available options: `CENTER`, `NORTH`, `NORTHEAST`,
`EAST`, `SOUTHEAST`, `SOUTH`, `SOUTHWEST`, `WEST`, `NORTHWEST`, `ENTROPY`,
`ATTENTION`. See Sharp's [crop][6].

#### rotate

Rotate the image (after cropping). See Sharp's [rotate][7].

#### grayscale

Uses Sharp's [greyscale][8] to convert the source image to 8-bit greyscale, 256
shades of grey, e.g.

```javascript
allImageSharp {
  edges {
    node {
      ... on ImageSharp {
        resize(width: 150, height: 150, grayscale: true) {
          src
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### duotone

Applys a "duotone" effect (see [I][1], [II][2], [III][3]) to the source image if
given two hex colors `shadow` and `highlight` defining start and end color of
the duotone gradient, e.g.

```javascript
fixed(
  width: 800,
  duotone: {
    highlight: "#f00e2e",
    shadow: "#192550"
  }
) {
  src
  srcSet
  base64
}
```

the source image colors will be converted to match a gradient color chosen based
on each pixel's [relative luminance][4].\
Logic is borrowed from [react-duotone][5].

You can pass a third optional parameter, `opacity`:

```javascript
fluid(
  width: 800,
  duotone: {
    highlight: "#f00e2e",
    shadow: "#192550",
    opacity: 50
  }
) {
  src
  srcSet
  base64
}
```

If set, a semi-transparent version of duotone'd image will be composited over
the original image, allowing the original image and its colors to partially
"shine through". _Heads up_: If the original image contains an alpha channel it
will be [flattened][15] before creating the composite.

This works by adding an alpha channel to the duotone'd image - then we let Sharp
do its magic via
[`overlayWith`](http://sharp.dimens.io/en/stable/api-composite/#overlaywith);
quoting the Sharp documentation:

> If the overlay image contains an alpha channel then composition with
> <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alpha_compositing">premultiplication</a>
> will occur.

#### tracedSVG

Generates a traced SVG of the image (see [the original GitHub issue][9]) and
returns the SVG as "[optimized URL-encoded][10]" `data:` URI. It it used in
[gatsby-image](/packages/gatsby-image/) to provide an
alternative to the default inline base64 placeholder image.

Uses [node-potrace][11] and [SVGO][12] under the hood. Default settings for
node-potrace:

```javascript
  {
    color: `lightgray`,
    optTolerance: 0.4,
    turdSize: 100,
    turnPolicy: TURNPOLICY_MAJORITY,
  }
```

All [node-potrace `Potrace` parameters][13] are exposed and can be set via the
`traceSVG` argument:

```javascript
fixed(
  traceSVG: {
    color: "#f00e2e"
    turnPolicy: TURNPOLICY_MINORITY
    blackOnWhite: false
  }
) {
  src
  srcSet
  tracedSVG
}
```

### Using MozJPEG

You can opt-in to use [MozJPEG][16] for jpeg-encoding. MozJPEG provides even
better image compression than the default encoder used in `gatsby-plugin-sharp`.
However, when using MozJPEG the build time of your Gatsby project will increase
significantly.
To enable MozJPEG set the [environment variable](/docs/environment-variables/#environment-variables):

```shell
GATSBY_JPEG_ENCODER=MOZJPEG
```

[1]: https://alistapart.com/article/finessing-fecolormatrix
[2]: http://blog.72lions.com/blog/2015/7/7/duotone-in-js
[3]: https://ines.io/blog/dynamic-duotone-svg-jade
[4]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Relative_luminance
[5]: https://github.com/nagelflorian/react-duotone
[6]: http://sharp.dimens.io/en/stable/api-resize/#crop
[7]: http://sharp.dimens.io/en/stable/api-operation/#rotate
[8]: http://sharp.dimens.io/en/stable/api-colour/#greyscale
[9]: https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/2435
[10]: https://codepen.io/tigt/post/optimizing-svgs-in-data-uris
[11]: https://github.com/tooolbox/node-potrace
[12]: https://github.com/svg/svgo
[13]: https://github.com/tooolbox/node-potrace#parameters
[14]: https://github.com/oliver-moran/jimp
[15]: http://sharp.dimens.io/en/stable/api-operation/#flatten
[16]: https://github.com/mozilla/mozjpeg
